test(manual): CSI plugin liveness probe (#1200)
longhorn/longhorn-tests: docs/content/manual/release-specific/v1.4.0/test-csi-plugin-liveness-probe.md

---
title: Test CSI plugin liveness probe
---

## Related discussion
https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/3907

## Reproduce Steps Before Fix

**Given** healthy Longhorn cluster
When delete the Longhorn CSI socket file on one of the node(`node-1`).
    `rm /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/driver.longhorn.io/csi.sock`

Then the `longhorn-csi-plugin-*` pod on `node-1` should restart.
     the `csi-provisioner-*`     pod on `node-1` should restart.
     the `csi-resizer-*`         pod on `node-1` should restart.
     the `csi-snapshotter-*`     pod on `node-1` should restart.

>      the `csi-attacher-*`        pod on `node-1` should restart.

Reviewer: Why will these sidecars be restarted as well? I thought the impact is only for the longhorn CSI plugin pod?

---
title: Test CSI plugin liveness probe
---

## Related discussion
https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/3907

## Steps

**Given** healthy Longhorn cluster

**When** delete the Longhorn CSI socket file on one of the node(`node-1`).
    `rm /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/driver.longhorn.io/csi.sock`

> **Then** the `longhorn-csi-plugin-*` pod on `node-1` should restart.

Reviewer: `should be restarted`

And the `csi-provisioner-*` pod on `node-1` should restart.  
And the `csi-resizer-*`     pod on `node-1` should restart.  
And the `csi-snapshotter-*` pod on `node-1` should restart.  
And the `csi-attacher-*`    pod on `node-1` should restart.  

> > **Note:** The other deployment of the CSI components restart is triggered by
>             their internal [ProbeForever](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/csi-lib-utils/blob/e085359dea1b0e9e49b02cb6bb30f33a80c6fe02/rpc/common.go#L109)
>             to the CSI connection. It is not due to the liveness probe of the
>             `longhorn-csi-plugin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** In `node-1`, the other pods of the CSI sidecar components restarted are triggered by
            their internal [ProbeForever](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/csi-lib-utils/blob/e085359dea1b0e9e49b02cb6bb30f33a80c6fe02/rpc/common.go#L109)
            to the CSI connection. It is not due to the liveness probe of the
            `longhorn-csi-plugin`.
```
